# Data Science - NYC Airbnb Analyzer

### This repository is an introductory project relating to Data Science. Analyzing the Airbnb statistics from NYC in 2019, I will be looking for trends among the information.

In this Data Science project, I want to analyze the trends that are present within a dataset containing information regarding the Airbnb situation in NYC, in the year 2019. Source for the Airbnb data could be found via Kaggle.com, at this link ( https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/dgomonov/new-york-city-airbnb-open-data ). From Kaggle.com, this NYC Airbnb open data has nearly 144,812 downloads, which makes it a popular source of data to analyze. There are many features that the dataset contains, such as: id, name, host_id, host_name, neighbourhood_group, neighbourhood, latitude, longitude, room_type, price, minimum_nights, number_of_reviews, last_review, reviews_per_month, calculated_host_listings_count, and availability_365. Some of these features are self-explanatory, such as name being the name of the listing, host_id is the id of the listing's host, and neighbourhood_group being one of the five NYC boroughs (Brooklyn, Queens, Staten Island, Bronx, and Manhattan). With the popularity of the service provided by Airbnb in this current age along with the great demand of housing in New York City, I thought this project would be great to recognize trends, whether it be which neighborhoods are the most in demand, which neighborhoods are the busiest, and which neighborhood has the greatest number of Airbnb listings.

Because this is a Data Science project, I will be utilizing popular Python libraries such as Pandas and NumPy for data analysis and scientific computing. Pandas is able to create DataFrame objects, which are 2-Dimensional table-like structures, which closely resemble the data visualized within a CSV file. NumPy allows for efficient numerical operations on large datasets, which would otherwise require multiple lines of code to perform the same actions in other programming languages. I will also be utilizing Seaborn and Matplotlib since they are two popular Python libraries that are used for data visualization. While Matplotlib is a low-level library that provides a wide range of visualization tools, Seaborn is a higher-level library that is more user-friendly.

In this Data Science project, there are a few tasks to complete, which I have carefully labeled and commented within the Jupyter Notebook. Following the traditional approach of dealing with a large dataset, I first cleaned the data by searching for anomalies in the data. For example, I printed out the number of missing data, which is represented as NULL, from the dataset, then proceeded to reason out what the best approach would be to deal with entries with missing values. When an airbnb listing would have a missing name or missing host name, I decided to remove those listings from the dataset, since the number of those entries (37) appeared to be miniscule compared to the total 48,895 airbnb listings in the dataset. Nearly 10,037 listings were missing 'last_review', but I decided to impute those missing values by setting them to 0 since those listings all had 'number_of_reviews' equal to 0. It is only reasonable to say that because a listing has no reviews, their last review is 0.

This is nearly the start of the entire Data Science project, but feel free to check my Jupyter Notebook to see more about the analysis done on the NYC Airbnb 2019 dataset. From the several different plots and the well commented descriptions, you could follow my thought process step-by-step. There are also plenty of explanations to describe the findings with possible reasonings as to why that may be the case. I utilized key statistical features such as the pairwise Pearson correlation analysis, while displaying information in the form of scatterplots and violinplots. 
